Over the last few years, we've helped
dozens of companies like Eventsair,
RB2B, Proposify, Clickhouse, and many,
many more with their SEO and AI search
strategy with a focus on pipeline. But
one of the biggest questions I get all
the time from marketing leaders and
founders is, should we do SEO and AI
search inhouse with our own team or
should we outsource it and hire an
agency? What I'm going to be doing is
breaking down the pros and cons of each
along with things like pricing, time
delays, time to value, what you can
expect, results, and much, much more so
you can make a balanced decision. Let's
get into it. So, let's start with the
actual team members that you're going to
need to run an SEO an AI search machine
properly. You'd need a head of SEO,
you'd need a lead content writer, you'd
need a link builder, and you'd need a
web developer if you want a crack team
as a foundation. And you may need more
than that, especially considering AI
search, but as a basis, you're going to
need at least those four team members.
So, if we start with the head of SEO,
they're going to be responsible for the
full SEO journey. They're going to be
nailing down the full strategy, making
sure that your program for your SAS is
actually focused on revenue metrics.
It's actually going to drive signups,
demos, leads, or trials, or whatever
your main conversion point is, as
opposed to going for traffic at all
costs that may never convert. So they're
going to be working with all the rest of
the team to make sure it's purely
focused on actually driving rock solid
inbounds, getting your brand mentioned
on AI search and chatbt consistently
when dream clients are in market as well
as showing up top of organic search. And
salary ranges can be around 150k US when
it comes to sites like Zip Recruiter.
That's what we're seeing right now, but
it can be much higher, especially for
larger companies. And from there, you're
going to need a senior content writer.
Salary ranges for those folks could be
anywhere from 90K or so from our
research. What are they going to be
doing? Well, they're actually going to
be focused on pulling all those subject
matter expertise from your team, getting
that industry knowledge, getting that
product knowledge, really making sure
the content that you build, the pages,
whether that's articles, landing pages,
competitor content, comparison content,
integration pages, vertical pages,
whatever it may be, that actually it's
going to rank. It's going to show up in
Google organic search and AI search.
It's going to be the right type of
intent. It's actually going to resonate
with dream clients. So, if an ICP, if an
ideal client sees it, they're actually
going to think, "This company knows my
world. They know my pain points. So, my
goals, my frustrations, they're
answering my common questions. So much
more than just writing copy. It's
actually appealing to those dream
clients, their pain points, their goals,
their desires. So, it's not a role that
you can cheap out on.
And next up, you're going to need a web
developer. And one of the biggest
bottlenecks that we see when it comes to
SEO and AI search is slow times to
actually get pages and content
published. Whether that's page updates,
page refreshes, net new pages, whether
that's your articles, landing pages,
vertical pages, or whatever else it may
be. That's one of the biggest
bottlenecks. speed to actually getting
content live, getting lines in the water
to show up on Google organic search and
AI search. Aer web developer is critical
there. Rates for those, salaries for
those can be anywhere from 8 to 2K on
average upwards depending on whether
they're kind of senior web dev, head of
webdev, or beyond. But a critical piece
of the puzzle is getting that content
shipped up and running, getting it
ranked, and getting it found on AI
search. And lastly, you're going to need
a link builder. Now, quite often times
these are brought in as contract rolls.
I've seen rates anywhere from a few
hundred bucks up to a thousand bucks
depending on whether it's things like a
guest post, a link insertion into a
pre-existing article. Listical
placements, you might have seen articles
like we evaluated the top 10 x softwares
of 2026. Getting featured placements in
those can be quite hefty when it comes
to rates. And likewise, if you're going
for real digital PR, getting featured in
news outlets, that can be way up again
into the thousands when it comes to
dollar spend. So, as you can see, prices
can soon rise when it comes to link
building. So when we add all those roles
together, you're looking at around 322K
per year plus, and that doesn't even
include the link building that we talked
about lastly. So that's the roles
combined, but we're not thinking of
other things like ramp up time. Of
course, it's going to take time to train
these folks, get them in line with your
systems, your SOPs, and make sure if
they're going to be doing SAS SEO that
it's actually focused on revenue, not
vanity metrics, and actually trained to
understand what SAS stream clients care
about, how SAS SEO and AI search
actually works, the fundamentals,
knowing everything from strategy to
technical work to content work, link
building, brand mentions, and much much
more. That's going to move the needle.
So, it's going to take them ramp up
time. Not only that, think of things
extras like whether that's pensions,
health insurance, all those extras that
come on top with having staff. Plus, if
they take time off sick and we've not
even considered a churn rate if these
folks get offered better opportunities
or if they go off and eventually want to
start their own thing. So, there's a lot
of added forgotten about costs when it
comes to building your own in-house
team, you need to think about too. So,
let's stack inhouse up against working
with an agency. So, if you're working
with a specialist SAS SEO and AI search
agency, you'll typically look at paying
anywhere from 4K to 20K plus per month.
So, that stacks up at 48K to 240K
annually. But not only do you get a
significant saving in terms of costs,
but you also decrease the time to value.
So you significantly decrease the ramp
up time. You have a team that already
knows how to get the job done.
Typically, if you're working with a SAS
SEO agency, they have the expertise.
They know how to go for revenue driving
metrics. They'll do things like
understand your customer research, pull
all that expertise from your team around
product knowledge, around customer
knowledge, sales knowledge, support
knowledge, and so much more. So they can
build a craft and strategy that's
actually focused on what dream clients
search on Google organic or AI searches.
Not when they're messing around or
information hunting, but when they're in
market. So they can build out a rock
solid strategy focused on pipeline. They
can fully undertake the content. They
can do all the technical works. They can
do all the link building off- page brand
building and much much more to get you
solid visibility in both Google organic
and AI search for those dream clients
that are in market for software like
yours comparing options or have that
intent to speak to a salesperson. So,
not only getting solid cost savings, but
you're really decreasing that time to
value so you can actually start getting
those inbounds, those juicy leads for
your sales team way faster. And there's
also the software and tools to think
about. If you're building in house,
you're going to have to build out and
purchase all of those softwares, whether
that's Hrefs, Semras, AI visibility
tools, outreach tools, maybe emails
tools, and much much more. Plus, you
might not have the flexibility with an
SEO agency that's focused on SAS. If you
need to pivot, perhaps you've changed
your product line a bit or competitors
have changed a bit or some of the
industries you're focused on a bit have
changed, you can share that with them.
They can get to work straight away. If
they've got dedicated experience in SAS
SEO, they probably know the game and
they can give you sound advice and start
getting the job done right away.
Whereas, if you're doing that
internally, depending on the size of
your organization, there might be
contracts to sign, approvals to get from
various tiers of execs, and much much
more to sign off with HR and beyond.
So, last of all, what actually makes
sense for yourself? Well, if you're a
large operation and you prefer to have
the headcount for various reasons, then
building in-house might just make more
sense because then you can have those as
direct reports. If you're in an office
environment, you can see perhaps the
work they're doing, work closely with
them and maybe there's other reasons
internally in terms of culture,
workflows, systems that it might just be
a better fit. But a lot of the SAS teams
we work with, the marketing teams are
extremely small. I'm talking one, two,
three people max in the marketing team.
And those marketers are stretched
extremely thin. They're doing content,
they're doing events, they're probably
helping the sales team with outbound,
probably doing ads, probably doing much,
much more, maybe running the podcast and
even more stuff than that. So, it often
makes sense for them to work with an
agency. So, it can be completely taken
out their hands. They can work with a
reliable team with a focus on driving
demos, signups, trials, booked calls
around the clock with a solid evergreen
organic SEO and AI search strategy. So,
it takes a load off their mind. And
there we have it. That's the summary of
building out your own team or working
with an agency for your SEO program. I
hope it's been useful. And if you're
looking for a team to fully run your SEO
with a focus on pipeline and revenue,
where we often work with SAS clients to
drive pipeline revenue as fast as 90
days, you can grab a call with us over
at breaking B2B.com or hit the link in
the description below. Or if you're not
ready yet, grab our 90 days to revenue
playbook and video over at
breakingb2b.com and hit that newsletter
tab and you can unlock it instantly.
here. And with that, I'll catch you on
the next one. Cheers.